as ernest hemingway noted the world
breaks everyone and afterward many are
stronger in the broken places but my
question is why isn't everyone to me it
comes down to the strategies that you
use there really isn't anything
objectively good or bad there isn't
anything that happens to you that can't
be overcome there isn't anything that
could happen to you
anything that when you turn inward you
can't find a reason to overcome you
can't find a way to put those pieces
back together and that becomes your job
it becomes literally up to you whether
you're going to sit and wallow and woe
is me because what happened happened and
there's no way to take it back but how
you respond what you bring to that table
whether you meet fire with fire whether
you meet that adversity with falling
apart becoming weaker in the areas that
broke or you bind them and mend them and
it becomes like a well that literally
makes you stronger is a choice and it's
a choice only you get to make but as
Stephen Hawking said when you complain
nobody wants to help you there are many
things in your life you've every reason
to complain about you have every reason
to be upset by the things that have
happened to you the most sinister thing
about excuses is they're valid there's a
million reasons why you should be able
to give up there's a million reasons why
you shouldn't need to try that thing
that broke you you should be allowed to
just sit on the ground and here's the
thing that's your right you've every
reason to do it and maybe people won't
even think less of you
but here's the truth why they become
weaker or stronger in the places that
broke and that's a choice of how you
react moving forward the great news is
the best thing that you could do to
become stronger is love yourself and
this kamal ravi khan said loving
yourself as a practice people think that
it's something that's going to feel
right that it's going to feel natural
that you're just going to turn inward
and there it is the spark of love and
joy for yourself inside yourself and the
truth is that's just not the human
experience that's not the way that it
works there's going to be a voice inside
your head and it's going to blame you
it's going to say that it's your fault
and no matter how many times people on
the outside tell you that that is not
true that this thing happened to you
that it isn't you it doesn't define you
there will be a voice that's going to
tell you that it does and that's where
you have to fall back on process that's
where you have to realize that you
literally have to practice loving
yourself and that it's okay that no
matter what happened there is absolutely
nothing that invalidates that you're
worthy of your own love but you've got
to practice it you've got to be willing
to do it you've got to be willing to put
in the reps you've got to know that it's
not going to feel right but you've got
to know on the other side of that is a
vision of your life where you actually
do love yourself because you took the
time to say it you took the time to
practice it you took the time to sit
there and feel stupid and say that you
love yourself and sometimes just putting
in the work is what you need to do to
get strong so put in the work
[Music]